The woman's husband and son were also attacked by the bees.Angry villagers are now demanding justice for the family. A swarm of bees invaded Makuri village in Tharaka Nithi County, leaving a 71-year-old woman dead, and two men with serious injuries. 

Mr Kaburu Mwiricia, the husband of the deceased woman, Irene Kaburu, told the media on Wednesday that the attack happened on Tuesday at around 6pm. 

Speaking from the PCEA Chogoria Mission Hospital, where he and his son are admitted, he said his wife was on the farm with other people picking tea when the bees from three hives descended on them. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




Mr Mwiricia said he heard cries and when he rushed there with his son, Mr Njeru Kaburu, he found his wife lying on the ground covered by bees all over the body. Other people were running all over the farm as the bees followed them. 

“We tried to rescue my wife but we were also overwhelmed and we fell down unconscious,” said Mr Mwiricia. 






Confirmed dead 

Villagers wearing protective clothing rescued them after about 30 minutes and rushed them to the hospital, where his wife was confirmed dead. 

He said the bees usually attack villagers who come near the hives, but this was the most serious attack. 

Mr Justin Mugambi, another victim, said he and others tried to rescue the woman by spraying the bees with pesticide without success. 

“All the villagers responded to the cries but were repulsed by the dangerous bees,” said Mr Mugambi. 

Angry villagers are now demanding justice for the family, claiming that the owner of the beehives has refused to move them away from the people. The lifeline of beekeeping is queen rearing which Joel Naibei, a certified bee master, is determined to nurture to ensure bee farming is protected from harmful practices. The initiative is fronted by the government and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Odinga's personal doctor David Olunya says ODM leader is responding well to treatment. Senator Moi will visit Bomet County Friday, while the Deputy President will be in West Pokot County on Saturday. The Deputy President tells Inspector General of Police that he will be accountable for misdeeds by service.