Mogadishu, 

Talks between the Somali government and opposition presidential candidates have collapsed, but some progress in the negotiations has resulted in relative calm in the past few days, Prime Minister Mohamed Roble said Friday. 

The government will continue holding talks on the electoral process to implement the pre-election agreement, which was reached on September 17 last year, with leaders of the federal member states, the PM said in a statement. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




The negotiations collapsed Thursday evening after the opposition requested to be included in future election talks, he said, noting that some concessions were made following rounds of talks. 

Roble said an understanding had been reached on the issues discussed, but one of the demands from the candidates' union was not in line with the country's electoral process. 






The Prime Minister, who has previously been holding talks with the council of presidential candidates, a coalition of opposition candidates, said reopening the September 2020 election agreement needs broad approval from other signatories. 

Roble said his government encourages dialogue and that the doors are open to all, but that there is a need to show sincerity and compromise, and not to create new obstacles and conflicts. 

Some opposition leaders blame President Mohamed Farmajo for the collapse of the talks, saying the government was just buying time and had nothing concrete to offer. As the country prepares to hold its presidential elections in February, Wadajir Party leader Abdirahman Abdishakur hopes to make the cut. Somalia, facing an electoral impasse, has seen cases of Covid-19 rise significantly this month. Abandoned by his biological parents, Dr Gitamo has overcome many challenges in life to realise his ‘American Dream’. Plan will see an extra 150 poll units in the past 10 years, nearly twice the number added over previous 47 years. President Kenyatta wants the public to be cautious about politicians making empty promises.