KCB's midfield maestro Michael Mutinda, who was sidelined for the match against South Sudan after a knee injury, has also been given his first start for the national team.Ulinzi Stars goalkeeper James Saruni will man the Harambee Stars goal. Harambee Stars coach Jacob "Ghost" Mulee has named his starting 11 for the friendly match against Taifa Stars of Tanzania set for Monday at Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi. 

Only defender Johnstone Omurwa has maintained his position from the team that beat South Sudan 1-0 at the same venue on Saturday. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




Kariobangi Sharks striker Eric Kapaito will lead the Harambee Stars attack, with captain Kenneth Muguna and Kevin Kimani earning starting roles after coming in as second half substitutes against South Sudan. 

KCB's midfield maestro Michael Mutinda, who was sidelined for the match against South Sudan after a knee injury, has also been given his first start for the national team. 

Ulinzi Stars goalkeeper James Saruni will man the Harambee Stars goal. The game starts at 3pm. 

Lineup 

James Saruni (goalkeeper), Harun Mwale, Johnstone Omurwa, Mike Kibwage, Daniel Sakari, Michael Mutinda, Kenneth Muguna, Lawrence Juma, Kevin Kimani, James Mazembe, Eric Kapaito 






Subsitutes 

Joseph Okoth, Nahashon Alem, David Owino, Kevin Simiyu, Danson Chetambe, Oliver Maloba, Abdallah Hassan, Reagan Otieno, John Macharia, Musa Masika, Henry Meja and Elvis Rupia The local-based players will be looking to make it to two wins in a row. The inaugural football clinic attracted players from the neighbouring slums. Wambua was last seen on Friday morning when her husband dropped her at work. President Magufuli has not appeared in public for over two weeks now. Police say they are monitoring the condition of the children before settling on the proper charge.