Residents of Mwanza are on Wednesday bidding farewell to the late President John Magufuli. 

In the morning, residents lined the streets to bid the president farewell as others ran on the adjacent road following the vehicles transporting the president's body from the airport to CCM Kirumba Stadium. 

Some residents threw flowers and spread kangas on the road as the vehicle carrying Magufuli's body weaved through the streets. 

On Saturday and Sunday, the body was in Dar es Salaam for mourners to pay their last respects. It was then taken to Dodoma where mourners who could not make it to Jamhuri Stadium lined the roads on Monday to bid the president farewell. On Tuesday, residents of Zanzibar paid their last respects. 

Mr Magufuli died on March 17, from heart complications at Mzena Hospital, and current President Samia Suluhu announced his death on the same day. 

Mr Magufuli, Tanzania’s fifth president, is the first to die in office. 

A programme released by President Samia Suluhu, who replaced him on Friday, said Magufuli will be buried on Friday, March 26 in Chato. 

President Suluhu also announced a 21-day mourning for Magufuli, adding that all flags of Tanzania will fly at half-mast for the period. 

Here is the funeral programme: 

March 20: The body will be taken to Lugalo Military Hospital then St Peter's Catholic Church in Dar es Salaam before proceeding to Uhuru Stadium for Tanzanian leaders to pay their last respects. 

March 21: Public pays respects at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. 

March 22:  Body flown to Dodoma for paying of last respects by public. Also a public holiday. 

March 23: Body to be transferred to Zanzibar for locals to pay their last respects. 

March 24: Public to pay last respects in Mwanza before transfer of body to Chato 

March 25: Family and public to pay last respect in Chato 

March 26: Mass at Catholic Church in Chato followed by burial at his home. Also a public holiday. Tanzanian president was flown to Kenya secretly on March 8 after suffering acute cardiac and respiratory illnesses. The official capital of Tanzania is Dodoma, although the economic heart is the port city of Dar es Salaam. The DP is facing a fresh political onslaught from, pro-BBI leaders keen to lock him out of their regions in the 2022 succession race. Mr Thakrar, 69, was suspended from the company he founded last month over claims of gross misconduct. The government is citing national security threats posed by some of the refugees.