The 19-year-old striker struck four times and assisted one goal for the Brewers in the month that saw the club move to the summit of the league standings where they now lead with 32 points.He beat Wazito FC winger Kevin Kimani in the final of the vote conducted by FKF and Sports Journalists Association of Kenya panelists. Tusker youngster Henry Meja is the Football Kenya Federation Premier League Player of the Month for January. 

The 19-year-old striker struck four times and assisted one goal for the Brewers in the month that saw the club move to the summit of the league standings where they now lead on 32 points after 14 matches. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




He beat Wazito FC winger Kevin Kimani in the final of the vote conducted by FKF and Sports Journalists Association of Kenya panelists. 

Meja, who was awarded a trophy and Sh50,000 during Tusker's training session at their Ruaraka backyard on Thursday, will be hoping to extend his eights goals tally when the brewers face Ulinzi Stars on Friday in the league at Kasarani. 

"It is hard to break into this team's first eleven but I have to keep scoring both in training and the match so that the coach can keep giving me more opportunities to play," said Meja after receiving the award. 






"I have been working hard and the coach has not entrusted me with the goalscoring responsibilities for the team." 

His form has made Harambee Stars head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee to give him a call up to the provisional squad for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Togo and Egypt. 

Meja is the second recipient of the award this season after AFC Leopardsforward Elvis Rupia was voted as December's best player. 

Meja was also named Tusker's Player of the Month for January which earned him a Sh10,000 shopping voucher from the club last month. Mieno beat goalkeeper Adisa from the spot in the 80th minute. After Tusker’s come-from-behind win over Nzoia Sugar midweek this is how their impressive statistics read.
Won their last seven matches. Unbeaten in their last 12 outings. Won 10 of their last... Medics say the only proven means of controlling spread of the virus is wearing masks and screening of patients. Second psychiatric report to be produced on March 12 before court gives directions in the Sh14 million corruption case. The cumulative recoveries in the country now stand at 87,099.