Lake Nakuru Senior Warden Edward Karanja said the cause of the fire was yet to be established. Rangers from the Kenya Wildlife Services and Kenya Forestry Services spent the better part of Tuesday trying to put out a fire at the Lake Nakuru National Park. 

Newly recruited KWS scouts, who were also at the scene, said the fire started at 10am near a shooting range located between the Lanet and Ndiriti gates of the expansive park. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}









A Kenya Wildlife Service scout fights a fire at Lake Nakuru National Park on March 2, 2021. 
Photo credit: Cheboite Kigen | Nation Media Group

 

The spread was exacerbated by winds and dry grass. 

Lake Nakuru Senior Warden Edward Karanja said the cause of the fire was yet to be established and that the park management and an aerial surveillance team were still assessing the damage. 






A Kenya Wildlife Service scout fights a fire at Lake Nakuru National Park on March 2, 2021. 
Photo credit: Cheboite Kigen | Nation Media Group

 

By press time, scouts, rangers and wardens were still trying to put out the fire using twigs. 






Kenya Wildlife Service scouts fight a fire at Lake Nakuru National Park on March 2, 2021. 
Photo credit: Cheboite Kigen | Nation Media Group

 

The responders said they feared it would spread and endanger the lives of animals at the park. 

"People in surrounding estates will not be safe if the fire escalates, and the animals may end up in the estates," a warden told the Nation. He said the inferno is spreading fast and more animals are likely to die. The fire has destroyed at least 700 hectares of vegetation so far. Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and politicians are top on the priority list for the vaccine against the deadly virus alongside health workers. The planning and coordination of the vaccine rollout will take up Sh53.4 million. WHO says the potential benefits of AZD1222 outweigh the known and potential risks.