Royal Media Services journalist Robin Njogu is dead. 

Njogu died at a Nairobi hospital hours after the death of his mother. 

ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru mourned him as a developer of radio news in Kenya. 


I’m saddened to learn of the passing on of Robin Njogu and his mum. Robin was a consummate journalist and contributed heavily to the development of radio news in the country. Sad loss for his young family, RMS and the media fraternity in the country. May God comfort his family.— CS Joe Mucheru EGH (@mucheru) March 16, 2021  

At the time of his death, Njogu was radio news managing editor at Royal Media Services. 

Following his death, devastated friends and colleagues paid tributes to the radio journalist on social media. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}





Heartbroken to lose a friend and fellow journalist Robin Njogu. The other day when I visited him at the hospital he was cheerful and getting better. He sent me this photo recently of the days when he used to attend my Govt. Spokesperson briefings as reporter. What a sad night... pic.twitter.com/MNoMeHoIYL— Dr. Alfred Mutua (@DrAlfredMutua) March 16, 2021  


Death is incomprehensible when it comes for someone you have talked to almost daily, about work and about life, for the last 10 years. 💔. Rest well brother. I pray for comfort and peace upon your family during this trying season. pic.twitter.com/zM3tDeuY2V— Oliver Mathenge (@OliverMathenge) March 16, 2021 The US government is piling new pressure on China to allow unfettered access to human rights monitors in the Xinjiang region. Health ministry has announced that 185 patients recovered within the same period. The new prices have made Kenya the most expensive fuel market in the region. All the six lawyers representing Sonko, including Dr Khaminwa, walked out of court in protest today. Turnout of Kakamega's frontline health workers remains low.