The main suspect in the killing of advocate Elizabeth Koki Musyoki, Christian Mwambay Kadima, was arraigned before Principal Magistrate Bernard Kasavuli at Mavoko Law Courts on Monday.
The prosecution sought 14 days to complete investigations into Ms Musyoki's killing. The court granted the request and ordered that the suspect, a gym trainer, be remanded for a further 14 days at Mlolongo Police Station. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Mr Kadima, who was on January 9 arrested by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over the lawyer's killing, is also wanted in South Africa over battery accusations.
It is still not clear how he left the country and made his way into Kenya, where he worked at a local gym. He currently holds a Nigerian passport.
Ms Musyoki, the founder of Koki & Associates, was found in her bedroom inside her house in Syokimau, Machakos County, where, according to the police, the two lived together for a year.





Police said that the suspect left the house on Thursday night only for the body to be discovered on Friday morning by the house help, who got concerned after realising that she had taken too long to wake up.
According to the house help, when she checked on her, she stumbled on her lifeless body.
Detectives believe that Kadima fled the house after committing the crime.
The case will be mentioned on January 25 for plea and further orders. The man who holds a Nigerian passport was on Friday night arrested in connection with a gruesome killing in Syokimau. Murder scene is same apartment where another unresolved murder happened in 2012. Chief Government Pathologist Johansen Oduor gives his report on the nature of injuries suffered following post-mortem exams. His presidential campaign team says he will conduct radio and TV interviews to persuade voters to turn up in big numbers. Ugandan government officials are accused of seeking to manipulate public debate ahead of the elections.