Lack of steady market has discouraged farmers in the region from investing in the business.Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) has constructed mango processing plant at Tot Elgeyo Marakwet County. Despite the potential of Kerio Valley region to grow quality mangoes and passion fruits, production of highly profitable cash crops has been on decline over the past years with no export targeting the lucrative European market.
According to the Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA), the region has potential to produce 25,000 tonnes of mangoes and 20,000 tonnes of passion fruits annually, but lack of steady market has discouraged farmers from investing in the business.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



“More than 40 per cent of mangoes produced in the region go to waste due to lack of market while middlemen offer low prices for the fruits subjecting farmers to exploitation,” said the HCDA report released last year.
But this is set to change after a state agency constructed a multi-million-shilling fruit processing plant to boost cultivation of mangoes and passion fruit targeting export market as alternative source of income to pastoralists in the region.





Mango processing plant
Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) has constructed mango processing plant at Tot Elgeyo Marakwet County to cushion farmers in the highly productive horticulture region from exploitation by middlemen, who offer low producer prices.
KVDA managing director Sammy Naporos said the Sh45 million mango factory has started operating officially to end the excessive loss of mangoes.
“The factory is a reprieve to farmers who have for long suffered exploitation by middlemen since it will ensure value addition for them,” said Mr Naporos.
Construction of the factory will save farmers between Sh8 and Sh10 million that they used to transport mangoes, oranges, paw paws, water melons and passion fruit to far markets. The 5,400 seedlings were distributed to farmers in Mbeere South and North. Nimrod Mwenda is among pioneer farmers of the fruit in Tharaka-Nithi County and has now trained tens of youths who are growing the fruit for bulking and selling in several towns He warns the opposition that any attempt to disrupt social order will be dealt with decisively. For Kenya, Mr Museveni could be a major behind-the-scenes player in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession campaigns. His closest rival Robert Kyagulanyi, aka Bobi Wine, came second with 38.4 per cent of the votes cast.