Two people have been charged before a Nyahururu court for illegally refilling gas cylinders as the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) cracked down on unauthorised liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) dealers in Nyandarua and Laikipia counties.
Before Resident Magistrate Cynthia Muhoro, Josephat Chege and Martin Njeru pleaded not guilty to charges of operating a bulk LPG storage facility without a valid license and refilling gas using brands of various companies without their consent.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The two, together with others who were not before the court, are said to have been found conducting the business in a  facility without an EPRA licence in Kasuku, Nyandarua West on January 12.
They were also charged with a second count of transporting gas cylinders, an accusation that they also denied.
The court heard that on January 12, the two were arrested while transporting the cylinder with a truck that had not been licensed to transport the product.





During the court session, it was mentioned that Mr Njeru was transporting LPG cylinders while Mr Chege was in charge of operations, selling and refilling.
The prosecution presented material that were found in the suspects’ possession without authorisation from brand owners to refill them.
The magistrate ordered that the two be detained until January 21, when the case will be mentioned. Fuel firms wait for two years to get back cylinders that unscrupulous traders hoard. Weak enforcement of regulations throws consumers under the bus as cartels mint billions at the expense of public safety The court issued an order that gave Bensouda her first big win against the soft-spoken, laid back public servant. Biden has stressed the need to unite the country after President Donald Trump's chaotic four years in office. Kitui County boss defends her longtime rival Kalonzo over his spat with the deputy president on land grabbing claims.