Chaos rocked Nyandarua Assembly on Monday morning during a special sitting convened to communicate a Gazette notice on the impeachment of Speaker Wahome Ndegwa.
The Gazette notice dated January 8 calling for the special sitting was placed by Deputy Speaker Zachary Njeru.
The sitting was disrupted after eight MCAs supporting Mr Ndegwa stormed the Assembly shouting and throwing seats and other weapons at the Deputy Speaker who was about to chair the sitting.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The floor of the House was turned into a battlefield with broken seats, pieces of wood and debris littering the scene as those in support of the impeachment protected Mr Njeru.
During the drama, the MCAs resolved to pull out of the County Assemblies Forum, which is chaired by the impeached Speaker, and dissolved the County Public Service Board before Mr Njeru adjourned the House for two weeks.





The eight MCAs allied to Mr Wahome walked to the Assembly as a team shortly before the sitting started, and converged in a group waiting to strike and disrupt the session.
Mr Wahome was impeached on Friday afternoon in a special sitting through a motion sponsored by Majority Leader King’ori Wambugu.
Mr Wahome has since moved to court to challenge the ouster, terming it illegal as the House was on recess.
But the 30 MCAs have resolved not to allow the embattled Speaker to resume office. Wahome has sought the support of the County Assemblies Forum, where he is the chairman. Justice Joel Ngugi says the process did not follow statutory procedures. The new coronavirus strain identified in South Africa appears to be more transmissible than earlier variants. Several Ugandans said they could only access some social media platforms through a VPN. The Musalia Mudavadi-led party says it has already crafted articles of impeachment against the deputy president should he fail to resign.