The London-born midfielder has not featured for Harambee Stars, but was in the team named for 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match against Sierra Leone in November 2018.The match did not go ahead as the West African country was banned by FIifa over government interference. Kenya Under-23 midfielder Henry Ochieng' has joined English Championship side Watford FC, the club announced on Monday.
Ochieng, who is capped by Kenya Under-23s, has signed until the end of the season. He took Twitter to confirm the news.

Delighted to have signed for @WatfordFC looking forward to the new journey ahead⚽️❤️ pic.twitter.com/HWXdM0lt2G— Henry Ochieng (@HenryOchieng_) January 25, 2021 
Having spent time at West Ham and Leyton Orient's academies, Ochieng made his senior debut in November 2016.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The 22-year-old has since featured for Braintree Town, Welwyn Garden City, Wingate and Finchley and was most recently with Cork City in the League of Ireland Premier Division.

✍️ We are pleased to confirm the signing of Kenya U23 international @HenryOchieng_, who joins our academy.— Watford Football Club 💙 (@WatfordFC) January 25, 2021 
The London-born midfielder has not featured for Harambee Stars, but was in the team named for 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match against Sierra Leone in November 2018. The match did not go ahead as the West African country was banned by FIifa over government interference. His first stop abroad was in Greece donning the Acharnaikos colours. Gor Mahia looked to be the real deal this season after signing 14 top players. The pardon came after his meeting with his Ethiopian counterpart Sahle-Work Zewde, who is on an official tour of Tanzania. The cases failed to kick off to allow prime suspect Lawrence Njoroge Warunge to undergo a mental exam. The country has raised security concerns after Somalia’s federal and regional forces renewed fighting at Bula Hawa in the Gedo region.