His final game in charge was Sunday's 3-1 FA Cup fourth round win against Championship side Luton.Lampard was appointed on a three-year contract when he replaced Maurizio Sarri at Stamford Bridge in July 2019. London
Frank Lampard is set to be sacked as Chelsea manager, with former Paris Saint-Germain boss Thomas Tuchel in line to take over, reports said on Monday.
The 42-year-old is expected to leave Stamford Bridge with the club ninth in the Premier League table, 11 points behind leaders Manchester United.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



A hat-trick from Tammy Abraham helped the Blues progress into the FA Cup fifth round on Sunday with a 3-1 win over Luton.
But it looks unlikely to save Lampard's job, with owner Roman Abramovich apparently ready to make a change.
Chelsea's record goalscorer signed a three-year deal in 2019 and despite a transfer ban, led them to the FA Cup final and a fourth-place finish in his first managerial campaign at Stamford Bridge.
With cash to spend ahead of this season, the arrivals of Ben Chilwell, Kai Havertz and Timo Werner have failed to translate into improved results.





The Blues have lost six Premier League matches so far this season, losing five of their last eight league games. The Chelsea striker's hat-trick sealed a 3-1 win against Luton in the FA Cup fourth round on Sunday. He has the lowest points-per-game return of any Chelsea boss in the Abramovich era. The pardon came after his meeting with his Ethiopian counterpart Sahle-Work Zewde, who is on an official tour of Tanzania. The cases failed to kick off to allow prime suspect Lawrence Njoroge Warunge to undergo a mental exam. The country has raised security concerns after Somalia’s federal and regional forces renewed fighting at Bula Hawa in the Gedo region.