Banjul
The Gambia has registered two cases of a British-identified coronavirus mutation which is likely more infectious, the West African state's government said on Thursday. 
Gambian Health Minister Ahmadou Samateh told lawmakers the strain was detected in two people entering the country, both of whom were asymptomatic, but did not give further details. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



“People coming from 20 hot-spot countries, like the UK, Spain, France and Sweden must face another test because we have detected the new variant," he said. "This one transmits faster".
Coronavirus variant B117 likely emerged in southeastern England in September, according to Imperial College London. The World Health Organization says it has already spread to 50 countries worldwide.
This strain is believed to be more easily transmissible because of a mutation of the spike protein, the part of the virus which latches on to human cells.





A former British colony of some two million people, The Gambia is the smallest country on mainland Africa.
Health officials in the poor nation have registered 3,890 coronavirus cases to date, with over 125 fatalities.
Samateh said the government was engaged in "initial talks" to procure a consignment of COVID-19 vaccines, which it expects to acquire in several months. Kemri scientists say the variants of the virus that causes Covid-19 are entirely different from those detected in the UK and South Africa. New UK strain has been reported to be 70 per cent more transmissible than the existing one. Ugandan opposition leader rejects early results which gave President Yoweri Museveni a wide lead as a "joke". This follows a swift confirmation process by ward representatives earlier in the day. Incumbent leader makes leap towards sealing stay in office beyond 35 years after he steadily stretched lead over ten other candidates eyeing country’s presidency.