Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Friday warned secondary school headteachers against flouting government fee guidelines.
He accused some school heads of increasing fees at the expense of parents.
"They should stop before we expose and punish them," he said at Embu County Primary School during a tour of learning institutions in the Embu region.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Prof Magoha said parents were struggling to survive and they could not afford more learning costs for their children.
"It is inhuman to punish parents during the Covid-19 pandemic," he said.
The CS also cautioned against expelling students who have not paid fees.
"There are some students whose parents can't raise fees. Such students should be spared. However parents who are financially stable should pay up so that school programmes can run uninterrupted," he said.





He dismissed the claim that the government has not released cash for free education, insisting that Sh14.6 billion has already been dispatched to the learning institutions.
"Those claiming that money has not been released are not being rational," he said.
The Cabinet Secretary said that 1.7million pupils across the country will receive sanitary towels.
He also said that a Sh1.8billion school feeding programme will be rolled out in dry areas.
"For children from these areas to remain in class, they must be supplied with food," he said.
On national examinations, Prof Magoha said preparations have been completed. While parents are still reeling from impacts of Covid-19 pandemic and can’t afford fees, the schools can’t run without money. Visits and spot checks by Nation teams since January 4 when learning institutions reopened have revealed the reality of offering lessons under trees. He warns the opposition that any attempt to disrupt social order will be dealt with decisively. For Kenya, Mr Museveni could be a major behind-the-scenes player in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession campaigns. His closest rival Robert Kyagulanyi, aka Bobi Wine, came second with 38.4 per cent of the votes cast.