Neuer said he hopes Schalke avoid relegation having come through their academy before joining Bayern in 2011. "I hope Schalke stay in the league and manage to turn the tide," Neuer told Sky, after brushing off questions about his record. Berlin
Bayern Munich goalkeeper Manuel Neuer set a new Bundesliga record with the 197th clean sheet of his career in the German top flight as the league leaders thrashed Schalke on Sunday.
The 34-year-old, voted FIFA's best goalkeeper of 2020, bettered the previous record set by former Bayern and Germany goalkeeper Oliver Kahn.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Kahn needed 557 Bundesliga matches, for Bayern and Karlsruher, to reach the old mark, which current Germany 'keeper Neuer has usurped after 423 league games for the Bavarians and former club Schalke.
On Sunday, Neuer pulled off saves to deny Mark Uth and Suat Serdar in Gelsenkirchen.
Neuer said he hopes Schalke avoid relegation having come through their academy before joining Bayern in 2011. 
"I hope Schalke stay in the league and manage to turn the tide," Neuer told Sky, after brushing off questions about his record.





"They had one or two chances and we didn't defend as well as we could have done."
The 4-0 victory, which saw Thomas Mueller score twice, sent Bayern seven points clear of second-placed RB Leipzig in the table. United will face West Ham in the last 16 next month. The 32-year-old was omitted from Arsenal's Premier League and Europa League squads this season. Deputy President lists Jubilee achievements since 2013, blames ODM chief, Handshake for stalling projects. It is made of solid granite with another heavy concrete layer beneath it reinforced with heavy metal. Wine has not left his home since he cast his ballot on January 14.