Twenty eight of Kenya's Covid-19 patients are under intensive care, the Health ministry said Monday in its daily update on the pandemic in Kenya.
Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe fruther reported that 13 of them were on ventilator support, 12 on supplemental oxygen and one under observation.
“Another 11 patients are separately on supplemental oxygen, 10 of them in the general wards," he said, adding one was in a high dependency unit.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



New infections
CS Kagwe also announced 65 new cases of the disease out of a sample of 2,681 tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the number of confirmed cases to 99, 227.
With that number of samples, the total tested since Kenya confirmed its first Covid-19 case last March rose to 1,128,360.
The ministry said 49 of the new patients were Kenyans and 16 foreigners, 39 male and 26 female, the youngest 12 years old and the oldest 92.





Fifty three of the cases were recorded in Nairobi and three in Kajiado. Mombasa, Kitui and Uasin Gishu each recorded three whereas Machakos, Kakamega and Murang’a had one each.
Three more deaths
The death toll increased by three in the past 24 hours to 1,734, while the number of recovered patients rose by 77 to 82,427.
Of those who recovered, 60 were under the home-based care programme while 17 had been hospitalised countrywide.
As of Monday, 697 patients had been admitted in health facilities countywide while 1,680 were under home-based isolation and care. The strategy will outline the country’s plans for the roll-out; how they will be bought, where they will be stored and priority groups. The app that was developed in Kenya in June last year allows health officials to track a person's movements and who they come into contact with. This comes after the President admitted that he instigated Sonko’s removal from office over his confrontational leadership style Some tech observers, however, noted that the restoration was only partial with full access yet to be achieved. American Department of State cites reports of pre-election violence and election irregularities.