The Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) has decried theft of street lights, road signs, guard rails and street poles despite measures to combat the crime. 
Kura Director-General Silas Kinoti said thieves have stolen items worth Sh500,000 belonging to the authority in the last few days and that such theft has increased over the past year.  



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



He urged Kenyans to protect public property.  
“Kenya Urban Roads Authority wishes to warn the public on an emerging trend of criminals destroying and vandalizing road furniture along our recently constructed roads. It has come to our attention that vandalism is rearing its head again,” Mr Kinoti said.
“Each year, the country loses billions of money through destruction and theft of street poles and lights, traffic lights, guard rails, road signs and drainage slaps either through careless driving or simple destruction and vandalism,” he said.





The authority identified Thika, Langata, Ngong and Outering roads as the most targeted by the thieves in Nairobi.
The vandals target newly constructed roads which are lined with tonnes of freshly erected metallic road facilities.  
Kura has in the past offered rewards of up to Sh100,000 to anyone who can provide information that would lead to arrest of such vandals, whom it says are part of organised criminal gangs. Over 30 street poles worth Sh5 million were cut down. Some road signs and guard rails on the newly-built multi-billion-shilling Thika superhighway are missing, less than a year since it was commissioned by former President Mwai Kibaki. Politicians led by Johnson Muthama, Susan Kihika and Kipchumba Murkomen say they have found peace and equality. The investigations have been narrowed down to close family members as well as the extended family. Employment Court quashed the appointment of Ms Wambui as the chairperson of the National Employment Authority.