A new inter-county night train service will now be available on the Nairobi to Mombasa standard-gauge railway route.
This is after Kenya Railways introduced two new Madaraka Express trains to the normal commuter rail service in the route due to increased demand following reopening of schools.
In a notice, Kenya Railways said the two trains will be leaving the Nairobi and Mombasa termini at 9pm and stop at each of the seven intermediate stages in the six-hour journey.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



However, the State corporation did not specify for how long the new service will be in use.
Yesterday, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia announced a plan to facilitate movement of students as schools reopen.
Part of the plan include enhancing train schedule to ease pressure on the public transport sector as learners travel back to school across the country with additional trains to be added to the Nairobi-Mombasa route from Monday.





This is in addition to Kenya Railways also making available additional trains within the Nairobi Metropolitan area.
“We want to make sure that the movement of children to school is seamless and that is why we must have more trains.,” said Mr Macharia.
Kenya Railways has also introduced a back-to-school Nanyuki safari train that will operate on the Nairobi-Nanyuki route.
The train will be leaving both stations at 9am, with stops in Thika, Mitubiri, Makuyu, Maragua, Murang’a, Sagana, Karatina, Kigango and Naro Moru.
The two trains will operate between January 4 and 5 to ease the burden on thousands of learners going back to school.
Mr Macharia said 1,500 learners and parents will be ferried through the refurbished Nairobi-Nanyuki railway. The low fare saw at least 4,000 people opt for the railway after the corporation increased the number of trips to and from Nairobi. The affected routes are Ruiru, Embakasi, Kikuyu and Syokimau. Pope Francis has accepted his resignation, which came after he attained the mandatory retirement age. Nyeri Town MP Mr Ngunjiri Wambugu said Mr Kang’ata was not sincere in his letter for sharing it with the media and the public. Learning institutions were shut in March to contain the spread of the coronavirus.