Zidane has already had to self-isolate this month after coming into contact with a person infected with the virusHe tested negative at the time and was able to oversee the teamAfter successive defeats in the Spanish Super Cup and Copa del Rey, the second a shock loss to third-tier Alcoyano, Zidane is again under pressure, and Real Madrid will try to reignite their La Liga title challenge away to Alaves Madrid 
Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane has tested positive for Covid-19, the Spanish club announced Friday.
The positive test comes a day before Madrid travel to Alaves in La Liga seeking to bounce back from an embarrassing midweek Copa del Rey exit.
"Real Madrid C.F. report that our coach Zinedine Zidane has tested positive for Covid-19," the club said in a statement.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Zidane has already had to self-isolate this month after coming into contact with a person infected with the virus.
He tested negative at the time and was able to oversee the team.
After successive defeats in the Spanish Super Cup and Copa del Rey, the second a shock loss to third-tier Alcoyano, Zidane is again under pressure, and Real Madrid will try to reignite their La Liga title challenge away to Alaves.
Zidane's side are playing catch-up to Atletico Madrid, despite having played a game more, after draws against struggling Elche and Osasuna, two of the league's bottom three, in recent weeks.





Alaves beat Madrid 2-1 in the capital in late November but have won just once in eight matches since, their slide into a relegation scrap costing coach Pablo Machin his job last week with former Spain international Abelardo Fernandez returning to take charge. The officers who had tear gas confiscated the group's placards before protest activities began at Jeevanjee Gardens. The two properties were purchased through the funds suspected to be proceeds of crime and corruption. Isiolo Senator Dullo, the only PDR lawmaker, insists she was not consulted on changing the party name.