The court in its ruling directed the defense and prosecution to form a common email in which they can exchange their documents. The court directed the matter be mentioned on February 8, 2021 for purposes of taking a hearing date. Defense lawyers in the Sh213million corruption case facing former Nairobi County Governor Evans Kidero, have urged the trial court to direct prosecution to make disclosure of three key witnesses to enable them prepare for the trial.
The defence lawyers have also said there is an order from the High Court directing prosecution to supply statements and other exhibits which the prosecution intend to rely on during the trial. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



"The prosecution ought to have supplied us with all witness statements long ago. Their continued hiding of the witnesses statements violates the constitutional rights of the accused persons," Kidero's the defence team submitted before Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogot.
The High Court further directed the  trial court to enforce the order to ensure that all parties in case get a fair hearing.





Hearing dates
The defense further complained about the manner in which the prosecution has been conducting the trial by failing to serve defense counsels with mention and hearing dates saying some accused persons have received the said notices and not their lawyers.
The court in its ruling directed the defense and prosecution to form a common email in which they can exchange their documents. 
The court directed the matter be mentioned on February 8, 2021 for purposes of taking a hearing date.
The case will be mentioned in a fortnight's time to establish whether evidence has been supplied to the former governor. The governor hopeful says he will not bow to pressure to pull out of the 2022 race and focus on Nairobi politics. Mr Kidero has pitched camp in the county since Thursday evening, holding meetings with various groups as he starts seeking support. The officers who had tear gas confiscated the group's placards before protest activities began at Jeevanjee Gardens. The two properties were purchased through the funds suspected to be proceeds of crime and corruption. Isiolo Senator Dullo, the only PDR lawmaker, insists she was not consulted on changing the party name.