A man who got Sh10,000 wedding support from an MP and the local CDF chairman claims he was ejected from a WhatsApp group and forced to refund the cash after taking on the legislator. 

It all started last November during preparations for Zack Kihenjo’s wedding in Nyeri County. 

Friends, relatives and well-wishers contributed money as he took an important step of his life. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}









Deputy President William Ruto. 
Photo credit: File | Sila Kiplagat | Nation Media Group

 

Among those that contributed was Kieni MP Kanini Kega and the local Constituency Development Fund (CDF) chairman James Munene who gave Sh5,000 each. 

But the noble gesture is now causing a stir after Mr Kihenjo was allegedly asked to return the money for questioning development projects in Kieni. 

The altercation took place in a WhatsApp group of which Mr Kihenjo, Mr Kega and Mr Munene are members. 














Kega, man spar over Sh5,000 wedding contribution



window.hasEmbeddedVideo = true;
 

Mr Kega had asked the Deputy President Dr William Ruto to resign from the Jubilee Party so that he could popularise the United Democratic Alliance (UDA), a party linked to him ahead of the 2022 General Election. 






"As a diehard supporter of the Deputy President, I commented that the MP should be the first to resign as he recently joined Kanu," Mr Kihenjo narrated, insisting that his comment came after the MP hosted Kanu leader Gideon Moi in Mweiga within the Kieni Constituency last month. 

Monies donated 

His comment, he says, attracted the wrath of the CDF chairman who asked for a refund of the monies donated towards his wedding. 

"This was the fourth time this was happening and I couldn't take it anymore," Mr Kihenjo, who was later ejected from the group, said. 

The Kieni MP belongs to the Kieleweke wing of the Jubilee Party that supports President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-2']]);
});
}, 62000);
}









kega

 

The 36-year-old survey assistant said the day after he was asked to refund the money, he rallied his friends and they raised the Sh10,000 and refunded the MP and the CDF chairman. 

Besides speaking in support of the DP, Mr Kihenjo says he also had questioned why a Sh10 million Naromoru water project had taken long to be completed. 

"I did not want further embarrassments and I wanted peace of mind. Furthermore, he should have been a cheerful giver and taken criticism kindly," he said. 

But contacted for a comment, Mr Kega denied having asked for the refund, saying he contributed the money as he does to dozens of other fundraisers to help the needy. 






Kanu party Chairman Gideon Moi during a Building Bridges Initiative consultative meeting in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County, on December 5, 2020. 
Photo credit: Jared Nyataya | Nation Media Group

 

He said he contributes more than Sh500,000 a month. 

"I contribute to needy cases monthly and when someone refunds your money, it means he was not needy as such," he said. 

He further accused Mr Kihenjo of politicising the issue, “which is immaterial" noting that he (Mr Kihenjo) was being pressurised by his political opponents. 

"This is not about development but a machination by people from the other side and it is happening because of my political stand and I won't change it," he said. 

imugo@ke.nationmedia.com Mr Odinga termed the meeting as "symbolic" and meant to ensure that the two communities work together. Drama ensued early Saturday when the Kanu chair went to Kapsisiywa for coronation as the Kalenjin kingpin. IEBC is tomorrow (Monday) expected to gazette a list of party and independent aspirants for the seat. The man was freed last year after the mother and the sister failed to appear in court to testify in an assault case. In most schools, lack of classrooms, desks, water, toilets, and dormitories is a stark reality.