Motorists experienced a heavy traffic jam along the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit corridor as schools reopened on Monday.
Motorists were stuck in the snarl-up for hours as police controlled the traffic on the busy Geoffrey Kamau Road that links Nakuru Town with Western Kenya and Nairobi.
“I have been stuck in traffic for the last one hour. I started my journey from Kakamega to Nairobi at 6am and by 10am I’m normally in Nakuru but it is 1pm and I’m still in Nakuru town and the (traffic) jam is not ending,” said Mr Harry Omuyakhu.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



He added: “I have children to take to school today. Some of them have not had their lunch. The government should expand this highway.”
Mr James Kang’ethe who transports tomatoes from Laikipia to Kisumu was equally not happy.
“I’m already late and by the time I get to Kisumu, the market hours will be over,” said Mr Kang’ethe.





Mr Thomas Ongubo, a matatu operator, said he had never experienced such a heavy traffic in the recent times.
“Today, I will only make one trip, I have wasted many hours in the traffic jam,” said Mr Ongubo.
On Sunday, a Kenya Police helicopter monitored the flow of traffic to and from Western Kenya along the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit highway.
“The helicopter was assessing the situation on the ground and this helped to ease congestion,” said a police officer.
However, efforts by the Nation to get comments from senior police officers on the surveillance of traffic flow were futile as most officers were reluctant to discuss the matter.
Efforts by the Nation to reach Police Spokesperson Charles Owino were futile as he neither picked our calls nor responded to our text messages.
fmureithi@ke.nationmedia.com Country’s flag will be hoisted at the UN headquarters in New York at 8pm Kenyan time. Kenya’s flag was Monday hoisted at the UN headquarters in New York alongside those of nine other holders of non-permanent seats. Ten governors under Cereb have joined the onslaught against him over the BBI's popularity in Mt Kenya. The court has suspended a Gazette notice calling for the Nairobi by-election following a case by impeached Governor Mike Sonko. Pope Francis has accepted his resignation, which came after he attained the mandatory retirement age.