Uganda's opposition leader Bobi Wine said early Friday that the country's election had seen "widespread fraud and violence", but he remained positive as votes were counted under an internet blackout.
"Despite the widespread fraud and violence experienced across the country earlier today, the picture still looks good. Thank you Uganda for turning up and voting in record numbers," Wine tweeted shortly after midnight, managing to bypass the blockage.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The 38-year-old former popstar-turned-lawmaker did not give details about his accusations, which contradicted the government's account that Thursday's vote had been peaceful with no major cases of violence reported.
The internet remained down for a third day as vote counting continued in the country. Results are expected by Saturday afternoon.
President Yoweri Museveni is seeking a sixth term in office, and Wine is his main competitor among 11 opposition candidates.





The election took place after one of the most violent campaigns in years, with harassment and arrests of the opposition, attacks on the media and scores of deaths. Incumbent leader makes leap towards sealing stay in office beyond 35 years after he steadily stretched lead over ten other candidates eyeing country’s presidency. The electoral body is tasked by the constitution to declare final results within 48 hours after closure of polls. Ugandan opposition leader rejects early results which gave President Yoweri Museveni a wide lead as a "joke". This follows a swift confirmation process by ward representatives earlier in the day. Incumbent leader makes leap towards sealing stay in office beyond 35 years after he steadily stretched lead over ten other candidates eyeing country’s presidency.