The 25-year-old's goal was the opener in a 1-1 draw for Newport, who are based in Wales but play in the England's League Two."I'm obviously absolutely delighted because it's not something that I intentionally set out to do," said King. London
Goalkeeper Tom King's midweek goal for fourth-tier Newport County has been confirmed as the longest in football history.
King's wind-assisted effort against Cheltenham on Tuesday travelled 96.01 metres (315 feet), erasing Asmir Begovic's 2013 goal from 91.9 metres for Stoke City from the record books.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The official Guinness World Records website confirmed the new mark, saying: "With his epic downfield kick, King officially broke the record for the longest goal scored in a competitive football (soccer) match, which covered an incredible distance of 96.01m (105 yards).
"Booting the ball from his own six-yard-box, it was picked up by the wind and soared into the net just out of opposition goalkeeper Joshua Griffiths' reach."
The 25-year-old's goal was the opener in a 1-1 draw for Newport, who are based in Wales but play in the England's League Two.





"I'm obviously absolutely delighted because it's not something that I intentionally set out to do," said King.
"I'm sure it will be talked about for a long time to come, so I'm proud and I'm sure my family will be extremely proud too.
"I'll have to drop Asmir a message to send my commiserations." "Someone has to be calm in this situation, it is not a catastrophe." There is little debate over Ronaldo's own tally. Other BBI backers' names missing include ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and trade unionist Francis Atwoli. He was held at the Kileleshwa police station in Nairobi. Development comes months after Talai Council of Elders crowned DP to lead the community.