Irving is a key part of a Brooklyn team hoping to become serious title challengers this season.The Nets acquired Houston Rockets star James Harden this week to form a heavyweight line-up alongside Irving and Kevin Durant, who returned to play this season after a year-long injury absence.The Nets are sixth in the Eastern Conference standings, with seven wins and six defeats. New York
Brooklyn Nets guard Kyrie Irving has been fined $50,000 (Sh5.5 million) by the NBA after attending a crowded indoor party without wearing a mask, the league said Friday.
Irving was placed under investigation after video emerged on social media showing him attending a birthday party with no mask.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



NBA protocols to combat the coronavirus forbid players from attending indoor gatherings of more than 15 people.
Irving has not played since January 5 for what the Nets have said are "personal reasons".
However he will be eligible to return to team activities on Saturday after a five-day quarantine period, provided he continues to test negative for the virus, the NBA said in a statement.
Irving will also forfeit salary earned during his quarantine period.
Irving is a key part of a Brooklyn team hoping to become serious title challengers this season.





The Nets acquired Houston Rockets star James Harden this week to form a heavyweight line-up alongside Irving and Kevin Durant, who returned to play this season after a year-long injury absence.
The Nets are sixth in the Eastern Conference standings, with seven wins and six defeats. Mr Museveni leads with 4,340,134 million votes against NUP presidential candidate, Bobi Wine’s 2,164,347 votes. Earlier on Friday, the Ugandan opposition leader said the election had seen "widespread fraud and violence". Ugandan opposition leader rejects early results which gave President Yoweri Museveni a wide lead as a "joke".