Kayole Youths came back stronger after the break with a goal Erick Mwema in the 55th minute giving them hope of a comeback, but Kajiado put the result beyond doubt in the 80th minute Terry Pashley Teto's goal.Kioko did redeem himself with a goal in the 90th minute, but it proved a mere consolation as Kajiado held out for the win. Debutantes Kajiado All Stars' impressive run in the Koth Biro tournament continued Sunday as they saw off Kayole Youths 3-2 at the Ziwani grounds to secure their place in the quarter-finals.
Kajiado All Stars opened the scoring in the round of 16 clash after just four seconds with a goal from striker Francis Githui, who capitalised on a miss-pass from Kayole Youths defender Dennis Kioko.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Githui was at it again in the 10th minute as his corner kick resulted in an own goal from Kayole Youths defender Dennis Kioko's header.





Kayole Youths' Fidel Castro (left) reacts after they lost to Kajiado All Stars in their Koth Biro Round of 16 match at Ziwani grounds on January 3, 2021.Kajiado won 3-2.
Photo credit: Chris Omollo | Nation Media Group


Kayole Youths came back stronger after the break with a goal Erick Mwema in the 55th minute giving them hope of a comeback, but Kajiado put the result beyond doubt in the 80th minute Terry Pashley Teto's goal.
Kioko did redeem himself with a goal in the 90th minute, but it proved a mere consolation as Kajiado held out for the win.





After the five goal thriller, Kajiado All Stars coach Ezekiel Akwana was all smiles.
"It was a very difficult match, my players had taken a break to usher in 2021 and this disrupted our momentum. I had to switch players from there normal positions to support the midfield and kill the wings, where our opponents where very strong and this bore fruits," Akwana said.
Kajiado will face the winner of the clash between Kahawa Sportive and Dallas All Stars in the quarter-final. Round 16 matches start on Sunday at Ziwani grounds. This match was initially slated for November 7, 2020, but was moved due to large-scale coronavirus infections in Reysol's camp. IEBC is tomorrow (Monday) expected to gazette a list of party and independent aspirants for the seat. The man was freed last year after the mother and the sister failed to appear in court to testify in an assault case. In most schools, lack of classrooms, desks, water, toilets, and dormitories is a stark reality.