The interior ministry has announced the massive transfer of county commissioners as well as deputy county commissioners across the country.
A list released by the ministry showed that a whopping 34 deputy commissioners had been moved from their workstations and posted to other areas.
It was a total overhaul in Wajir County where the deputy commissioners of Wajir South, North and West were all transferred to Suba, Imenti South and Nyando respectively.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Seven county commissioners were affected, among them Kwale’s Karuku Ngumo who was moved to Meru and Kisii’s Abdirizak Jaldesa who was posted to Samburu.
Meru’s commissioner Alan Njagi Macharia was transferred to Kisii.
John Kipng’etich Korir from Samburu was moved to Busia to fill in the vacancy left by Commissioner Joseph Murithi Kanyiri who was transferred to Kwale.





Moses Kipkoech Lilan, Homa Bay’s county commissioner, switched positions with Garissa’s Michael Mwangi Meru. 
The list copied to all regional commissioners showed that the transfers are with immediate effect.
They come barely four months after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i announced the transfers of 15 county commissioners and 98 deputy county commissioners.
soketch@ke.nationmedia.com All the officers affected by the transfers are expected to report to their new commands by December 9, 2020. The intended transfers, announced on Tuesday evening, touched only on regular Kenya Police officers. Politicians led by Johnson Muthama, Susan Kihika and Kipchumba Murkomen say they have found peace and equality. The investigations have been narrowed down to close family members as well as the extended family. Employment Court quashed the appointment of Ms Wambui as the chairperson of the National Employment Authority.