Police in Rachuonyo South in Homa Bay County have arrested a 40-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 11-year-old niece in Kasimba Sub-Location.
The man is accused of defiling the minor, who is an orphan, several times before his actions were found out on Thursday evening.
The victim, a Grade Four pupil, has been living with the suspect after her parents died a few months ago.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



According to Kasimba Sub-Location assistant chief Pius Odoyo, the matter came to light after a neighbour saw the girl having difficulties in walking.Mr Odoyo said the neighbour asked the minor what was ailing her and it was then that she revealed that she had been defiled.
"Further conversations revealed that the suspect has been defiling the minor," the administrator said.
After the indecent act, the girl would be warned against revealing her ordeal.





Punished
"According to the girl, her uncle threatened her that she would be punished," Mr Odoyo said.
After getting the information, Mr Odoyo rushed to the scene with police from Oyugis police station who arrested the suspect.
The minor was rushed to hospital for medical examination, which revealed that she had been defiled.
The suspect is detained at Oyugis police station and will be charged on Monday.
Rachuonyo South Sub-County Police Commander Lilies Wachira said the suspect is being interrogated over the incident. In the past six months, 10 people have been reported missing, only to be found dead. The accused claims he was framed after he differed with the complainant's brother. According to family members, the deceased was attached to the DP’s security detail for several years. The footbridge was damaged by a trailer carrying an excavator earlier in December 2020. However they made us feel, the men and women in this list elicited different emotions in all of us.