Luanda,
African leaders from the Great Lakes region called on rebels in the conflict-riven Central African Republic to agree to a ceasefire on Friday.
Election-based violence in the country has displaced more than 200,000 in the past two months, the United Nations said.
Rebels controlling about two-thirds of the nation launched an offensive a week before contested presidential elections that returned Faustin Archange Touadera to power.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



"The Heads of State and Government urge all rebel forces to observe a unilateral and immediate cease-fire," Angolan Foreign Minister Tete Antonio said at the end of a meeting of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) in Luanda.
"We want a Great Lakes region without armed conflict, without death, or forced displacement of inhabitants," said the statement from African officials.





The mini-summit, which Congolese President Denis Sassou-Nguesso and Rwandan Paul Kagame attended, also said it would support a CAR request to the UN Security Council to lift a heavy weapons embargo.
CAR said the lifting the embargo was needed in order to fight the rebels.
Landlocked CAR is one of the world's poorest nations and has seen a string of coups and wars since it gained independence from France in 1960. This comes a day after the National Assembly voted for the removal of the PM and his government over incompetence. The two States had refused to nominate members, repeatedly saying they wanted some issues resolved first. ODM leader was protesting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s new term after months of deadly election turmoil. The politicians says the ODM leader will continue making inroads in Mt Kenya, without the help of those allied to DP Ruto. President Uhuru Kenyatta says he will soon assert his political authority in the restive Mt Kenya region.