Mozzart Bet Kenya has injected over Ksh28 million into various CSR projects in Kenya to support communities. The company aims to do even more going forward.
Successful companies like Mozzart Bet need to express solidarity with the people and compassion more than ever. Mozzart Bet is a market leader in Southeast Europe, and is recognisable for its social work. Worldwide, in seven markets, the company has reserved over Ksh200 million for the fight against Covid-19. A large part is destined to help and support the Kenyan health system, as well as the citizens most affected by the coronavirus pandemic.
Year 2020 was a difficult one, mainly due to Covid-19 that halted economic activities globally. The ripple effect was felt across all sectors, but Kenyans are resilient people. They kept working hard despite the tough times. Mozzart felt the need to support Kenyans and therefore initiated several CSR activities.  
Through the “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities” programme, Mozzart donated vital medical equipment to various hospitals in the country. The company made a donation of Ksh10 milllion worth of personal protective equipment (PPEs) to frontline workers; medical equipment to the Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub-County Hospital in Tiaty, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre and Kayole 1 and 2 health centres. Each of these facilities received equipment worth Ksh1.5 million, while the Pumwani Maternity and Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospitals each received donations worth Ksh3 million.
The items donated included incubators, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, bedside lockers, foetal scanning machines, foetal dopplers, digital weighing scales for babies and adults, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses.
Mozzart Bet also launched the “100 Water Wells for Our Communities” project, with the first water point already operational in Imbo, Kothidha, in Homa Bay County. Through the water project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to the most deserving communities. More water points will be commissioned this year.





Mozzart Bet closed the year by unveiling a Ksh20 million sponsorship of Football Kenya Premier League (FKFPL) side Kakamega Homeboyz. The company also donated jerseys, balls and other equipment to grassroots football teams across the country.
Mozzart Country Manager Sasa Krneta reveals the company will continue supporting community initiatives across Kenya in 2021.





Slika 7


“We have always had the interests of Kenyan people at heart and we were very happy to support several initiatives in 2020. We believe we touched and changed the lives of people around the country and our aim is to continue doing so this year,” he says.
“I want to assure Kenyans that ongoing CSR activities will continue and we will, as a matter of fact, put more emphasis and resources to help the most vulnerable communities around the country.” Senate Majority Chief Whip says he did not give the letter to any media outlet. The hospitals in Nyamira, Homa Bay and Migori counties that were involved in various forms of fraud. Some learners forced to study under trees as most learning institutions face the social distancing nightmare.