The Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) has begun a year-long project to refurbish part of the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in Nairobi, as it seeks to improve travellers’ experience.
The Sh963 million project to upgrade terminals 1B and 1C will see the renovation of departure halls to improve check-ins, security scanning, retail operations and passenger lounge experience.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



“It will also increase passenger flow and increase efficiency due to centralisation of security screening procedures and the reallocation of available floor spaces to international departure gates,” KAA said in a statement on Thursday.
Due to the remodelling, travellers will now be required to arrive at the airport at least four hours before their flight departure time.
Airlines that have been operating from the two terminals have also been temporarily relocated to terminals 1A and 2.





“The remodeling project is an integral part of the ongoing JKIA Customer Service Improvement Plan which was formulated from feedback from our stakeholders and customers,” said KAA Managing Director Alex Gitari.
Mr Gitari added that the works are part of efforts to position JKIA as the preferred regional aviation hub.
“The refurbishment and facelift of the T1B and 1C aim to align the passenger experience in these terminals to match what is offered at T1A,” he said. Kenya Railways said that the new prices will remain in place for the next 90 days. The road that will link the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) to Nairobi-Nakuru highway is already 15 percent complete. Judge allows withdrawal of petition that had blocked Ms Ann Mwenda from being vetted. The ICC has the authority to hear cases of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity committed in the 123 countries, including Uganda. In December, TSC failed to attend a negotiation meeting called by Labour CS Simon Chelugui to mediate the two parties.