The ex-RUSAF five can appeal the verdict while Lysenko's case is still ongoing.RUSAF has until March 1 to present its plans for reform and remains under the threat of exclusion from the IAAF and the Tokyo Olympics. Paris 

Former Russian athletics chief Dmitry Shlyakhtin was on Wednesday banned for four years over the Lysenko doping cover-up affair, the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) announced. 

Four other former RUSAF officials received the same punishment from athletics' independent anti-doping watchdog: executive director Alexander Parkin, Artur Karamyan, Elena Orlova and Elena Ikonnikova. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




The quintet were found guilty of obstructing an investigation into high-jumper Danil Lysenko, a silver medallist at the 2017 World Championships in London. 

Shlyakhtin and the others were suspended last year for "serious breaches" of anti-doping rules. 

Russia has been banned from competing as a country in athletics since 2015, after the World Anti-Doping Agency found evidence of widespread doping in the sport. 

Some Russian athletes, including Lysenko, have been allowed to compete under a neutral flag. 






But last year Lysenko had that status removed by athletics' governing body, then called the IAAF, after he failed to provide the whereabouts information he is required to give to submit to doping tests. 

The AIU's 15-month investigation found that Shlyakhtin and Parkin had been involved in the "provision of false explanations and forged documents to the AIU in order to explain whereabouts failures by the athlete". 

The ex-RUSAF five can appeal the verdict while Lysenko's case is still ongoing. 

RUSAF has until March 1 to present its plans for reform and remains under the threat of exclusion from the IAAF and the Tokyo Olympics. The panel is convening for the first time to choose a successor to 83-year-old Yoshiro Mori. Mori has a history of making controversial remarks. Yatani says debt accumulation is the result of fiscal deficits. The President has also merged Mining department with Petroleum. The video clip shows the gunmen threatening the victims and state authorities.