The Nairobi County Assembly on Thursday became the latest to approve the BBI Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 unanimously. 

A total of 114 ward representatives voted in favour of the Bill. 






Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo during the debate on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
Photo credit: Collins Omulo | Nation Media Group

 

Justice and Legal Affairs committee chairperson Joseph Komu moved the motion on the consideration of the report on the Bill, popularly known as the Building Bridges Initiative Bill on Thursday afternoon. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}









The Nairobi County Assembly during the debate on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
Photo credit: Collins Omulo | Nation Media Group

 

"In light of the submissions from the public participation exercises contained herein and pursuant to the provisions of Article 257(6) of the Constitution, the sectorial committee on Justice and Legal Affairs hereby recommends to the Nairobi City County Assembly to approve the BBI Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020," said Mr Komu. 

The motion was then seconded by Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya. 






Nairobi County Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs committee chairperson Joseph Komu moved the motion on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
Photo credit: Collins Omulo | Nation Media Group

 

In attendance in the House are Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh, Makadara MP George Aladwa, Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, Roysambu lawmaker Waihenya Ndirangu and nominated MP Maina Kamanda. Kisii County Assembly becomes the eighth assembly to pass the Bill crucial in the actualisation of the Building Bridges Initiative, (BBI). The initiative received a mixed reception by Nairobi residents, with two camps emerging. The lender of last resort has now given the government a total of Sh14.8 billion since last year. A litany of court cases put paid to the by-election by the IEBC that was to be held today.