Between November 2020 and now, 19 different hospitals across the country have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart Bet. 

On February 18, 2021, the leading gaming company donated medical equipment worth Ksh1.5 million to the Yala Sub-County Hospital. The equipment included hospital beds, bedside lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meters and infant incubators. 





 

At hand to officially receive the equipment was Hon Dismas Odhiambo, the Siaya County Executive for Health, who thanked Mozzart for the kind gesture. 

“We are happy to receive (these equipment) and I want to thank Mozzart for taking the bold step to be the givers. Every equipment given to this hospital shall be put to good use to improve service delivery so that every patient that comes in here leaves as a better person,” he said. 






Hon Dismas Odhiambo, the Siaya County Executive for Health.

 

“I get treated in this facility because I believe in the capability of the staff here and the good work they do. Mozzart is a sports-oriented gaming company and they have found it fitting to save lives in the communities. On this CSR initiative, you have scored a good goal,” he added. 

Cyprian Aluda, the Mozzart CSR representative, reiterated the company’s commitment to supporting communities across the country. “We are very happy to be in Yala to give this donation of medical equipment as part of our CSR programme known as “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”. We have done this across the country from November last year and we are not about to stop, as more hospitals have been aligned to receive more donations in the coming weeks,” he said. 

“Our hope is that the equipment will benefit the people of Yala Sub-County and Siaya County at large. We have spent over Ksh50 million in CSR activities and we are very happy to make a difference in the community,” he added. 





 

More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in the coming weeks to join the growing list of Mozzart beneficiaries. 

The facilities that have so far received equipment from the company include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub-County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub-County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Centre, Mukuru Health Centre, Dandora 2 Health Centre, Kakamega Referral Hospital, Waithaka Health Centre, Vihiga County Referral Hospital, and now Yala Sub-County Hospital. He encouraged clerics to continue interceding for the nation to defeat the pandemic. Ms Sidi Said died in a private car while being rushed to St Joseph Shelter of Hope. Former Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi among nine new CAS who sworn in today at State House.