The number of declared Covid-19 cases in Kenya has risen to 103,841 as 226 more people were found infected after the analysis of 4,606 samples in the past 24 hours. 

Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe made the announcement in a statement on Monday, saying 165 of them were Kenyans and 61 foreigners. 

CS Kagwe said 132 were male and 94 females, the youngest two years old and the oldest 98. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




The new patients were found in counties including Nairobi (142), Kiambu (16) and (Nakuru) 14,. 

Machakos and Uasin Gishu followed with nine new cases each and then came Laikipia with six, Mombasa five, Meru and Nyeri three each, Bomet, Elgeyo Marakwet, Garissa, Kajiado, Kilifi, Kwale and Turkana two each. 

Narok, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Kakamega and Kericho each recorded just one new case. 

Six more deaths 

CS Kagwe further announced that another six patients had succumbed to the virus, raising the death toll in Kenya to 1,813. 






He also reported that 75 more patients had recovered, 49 of them under the home-based care programme and 26 in hospital, raising the total to 85,532. 

As of Friday, 333 patients had been admitted at health facilities countywide while 1,150 were being treated at home. 

Forty nine of those admitted were in intensive care units (ICU), 21 of them on ventilatory support, 23 on supplemental oxygen and five under observation. 

Another nine patients were separately on supplementary oxygen, five of them in general wards. 

ambuthia@ke.nationmedia.com The Sputnik V vaccine gives around 92 per cent protection, is safe and offers complete protection against hospitalisation and death. The country is expecting 24 million doses of the vaccine sometime next week, according to Health officials. He encouraged clerics to continue interceding for the nation to defeat the pandemic. Ms Sidi Said died in a private car while being rushed to St Joseph Shelter of Hope. Former Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi among nine new CAS who sworn in today at State House.