The students are said to have used cigarette filters to light the fire which burnt the dormitory.Authorities warn students engaging in unlawful activities that will not be spared. Nine secondary school girls accused of setting a dormitory ablaze have been arrested by police in Kirinyaga County. 

The students from Mugumo Girls High School were seized Friday morning and locked up at Kianyaga Police Station for interrogation. 

They were said to have burnt a dormitory on Sunday last week, destroying property worth thousands of shillings. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




Burnt dormitory 

During the arson incident, beds, mattresses and others items were reduced to ashes. 

However, county fire fighters and the police responded fast and managed to put out the fire which had thrown the learning institution management into panic. 

According to Gichugu East Sub-county Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officer, Millicent Ochuka, the students used cigarette filters to light the fire which burnt the dormitory. 

Arson charges 






"We have been carrying out investigations since the incident was reported but finally we have arrested the suspects," she said. 

Ms Ochuka said that the girls will soon be charged with arson adding that their parents were free to visit them at the police station. 

She warned students engaging in unlawful activities that will not be spared. Students stage protest accusing principal of intimidation, high-handedness and failure to address their grievances. The schoolgirls walked to the sub-county offices in the dead of the night. He encouraged clerics to continue interceding for the nation to defeat the pandemic. Ms Sidi Said died in a private car while being rushed to St Joseph Shelter of Hope. Former Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi among nine new CAS who sworn in today at State House.