Florists, beauticians, food vendors and wine-sellers are using the opportunity to interact with their customers and the public.This is also giving them the chance to network, strike deals, and get sales and brand exposure. On any normal day, if you walked along Kimathi Street in Nairobi you would likely be jostling for space with cars parked the entire stretch. 

Today, if you walked on this same street, you would notice a riot of white tents with red ribbons at the entrance of Nation Centre. Inside the tents are vendors showcasing and selling all manner of Valentine’s-themed products. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




For two days, Nation Media Group has partnered with various businesses to pitch camp at the entrance of Nation Centre. 

Brand exposure  

Florists, beauticians, food vendors, wine-sellers and several start-up enterprises are using the opportunity to interact with their customers and the public. This is also giving them the chance to network, strike deals, and get sales and brand exposure. 

The initiative is aimed at helping the exhibitors shake off the dust of the pandemic and the stresses of the economy. It is themed “Resilience, Recovery and Sustainability”.  






Effects of pandemic 

SMEs provide employment to more than 14.9 million Kenyans. When the pandemic hit, they were yet to be strong enough to wade through the tide as their well-established fellows did. Many small businesses closed shop. 

Many micro-SMEs and SMEs, according to NMG’s commercial manager Mercy Kamunya, are now struggling to re-emerge, and this partnership is one of the many that NMG will promote and facilitate in the coming days, in partnership with investors. 

dogetta@ke.nationmedia.com Men, who are usually under pressure from their partners at this time of the year, are this time safe, thanks to the pandemic. More people are using dating apps to overcome the loneliness caused by the pandemic The International Court of Justice says the case will begin as scheduled, with oral proceedings taking place on March 15 -19. DP says he will continue respecting the decisions of the President because he is "the one in charge and who calls the shots". The country has introduced a 1,000-pound note to ease transactions but experts say it will not help the economy much.