Kigali, 

The Rwandan government said Friday that the current Covid-19 restrictions will be eased from February 23, with the reduction of curfew hours and the resumption of public offices in the capital city of Kigali. 

Under the new measures effective from February 23 to March 15, movements will be prohibited between 8pm to 4am nationwide, and shortened from current 7pm to 4am, according to a Cabinet communique. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}




Public offices in Kigali, which have been required to be closed, will resume with essential staff at no more than 30 percent capacity, and all schools across the country will be allowed to open. 

The government also decided to continue banning movements between Kigali and other places, except for essential services, medical reasons and tourism. 

It also allowed the reopening of restaurants and cafes, with a 30 percent occupancy limit. 






A lockdown was imposed in Kigali from Jan. 18 through Feb. 7 due to a surge in COVID-19 cases in the city. The government has gradually lifted restrictive measures against COVID-19 in and outside the city since then. 

As of Friday, Rwanda has recorded a total of 17,929 cases with 16,387 recoveries and 245 deaths. The Sputnik V vaccine gives around 92 per cent protection, is safe and offers complete protection against hospitalisation and death. He encouraged clerics to continue interceding for the nation to defeat the pandemic. ODM leader says his focus is the BBI and announces a "Super Tuesday" by when 24 assemblies will have passed the bill. The Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) says the government should declare a second wave and issue scientific measures for the public to observe. MCAs seek to arm-twist the government into acceding to their demand for car grants as they vote for the document.